                         Reputational Ranking System for Real Estate
                                Transaction Agents Using Blockchain
                                    PIC2 - Master in Computer Science and Engineering
                                     Instituto Superior T├®cnico, Universidade de Lisboa
                                                                                    ŌłŚ
                                               Stefan Daniel Knutsen ŌĆö 99123
                                            stefan.knutsen@tecnico.ulisboa.pt
                                                           Advisor(s):
                                            Miguel Nuno Dias Alves Pupo Correia
                                                          Lu├Łs Marado
                      Abstract Trust plays an important role in real estate transactions involving buyers, sellers, agents,
                      brokers, and legal entities. Existing reputation systems typically represent feedback as single-valued
                      ratings, without capturing distinctions between different behavioral competencies. This work pro-
                      poses a blockchain-based reputation system designed to address the requirements of real estate trans-
                      actions. The system computes reputation as a multidimensional value based on blockchain-recorded
                      interactions and user-submitted feedback, where distinct behavioral components evolve according to
                      the context of each interaction. Reputation updates are applied through transparent and verifiable
                      algorithms implemented as smart contracts, ensuring auditability and resistance to manipulation
                      attacks. The system aggregates reputation components using role-specific weights and supports the
                      issuance of verifiable credentials, enabling reputation portability across platforms. The architecture
                      is implemented using Daml smart contracts deployed on the Canton Network, providing a ledger
                      with privacy-preserving properties. The proposed system addresses requirements including multidi-
                      mensional reputation representation, context-specific updates, selective visibility, protection against
                      common attacks, and credential-based verification.
                      Keywords ŌĆö Blockchain, Reputation Systems, Real Estate, Verifiable Credentials
                   ŌłŚI declare that this document is an original work of my own authorship and that it fulfills all the requirements of the Code
                of Conduct and Good Practices of the Universidade de Lisboa (https://nape.tecnico.ulisboa.pt/en/apoio-ao-estudante/
                documentos-importantes/regulamentos-da-universidade-de-lisboa/).
                                                                        Contents
                   1 Introduction                                                                                                      3
                       1.1   Work Objective . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        3
                       1.2   Document Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            3
                   2 Background and Related Work                                                                                       4
                       2.1   Digital Identity and Verifiable Credentials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          4
                             2.1.1   Self-Sovereign Identity (SSI) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        4
                             2.1.2   Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         5
                             2.1.3   Verifiable Credentials (VCs) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         5
                       2.2   Blockchain Applications in Real Estate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           7
                             2.2.1   Documentation and Identity Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                7
                             2.2.2   Tokenization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         8
                             2.2.3   Smart Contract Integration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           8
                       2.3   Reputation Systems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           9
                             2.3.1   Interaction    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     9
                             2.3.2   Privacy and Security . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         9
                             2.3.3   Trust Model . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      10
                             2.3.4   Cryptographic Mechanisms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           11
                             2.3.5   Common Attacks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         12
                             2.3.6   Blockchain-Based Implementations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           12
                   3 Solution                                                                                                         14
                       3.1   System Requirements        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
                       3.2   System Participants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        15
                       3.3   Data Structures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      16
                       3.4   System Architecture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        17
                       3.5   Interaction Outcomes Evaluation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          19
                       3.6   Reputation Updates Application . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           20
                       3.7   Blockchain Platform . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        21
                       3.8   Smart Contracts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        21
                   4 Evaluation                                                                                                       22
                   5 Work Schedule                                                                                                    22
                   6 Conclusion                                                                                                       22
                   Bibliography                                                                                                       24
             1   Introduction
             Real estate transactions represent high-value and legally complex interactions involving multiple parties,
             such as buyers, sellers, agents, brokers, and legal entities. These transactions often require participants
             to make decisions based on information about the past behavior and reliability of other actors. As a
             consequence, trust plays an important role in determining whether transactions proceed ef├Åciently,
             securely, and fairly.
                Reputation serves as a mechanism to aggregate past behavior and interactions into an assessment
             that supports trust and decision making. A reliable reputation system should help participants assess
             professionalism, compliance with procedures, and consistency of behavior across transactions.
             However, traditional reputation and ranking systems often lack transparent methods to measure, display,
             andverify reputation. As a result, participants in these systems may have dif├Åculties assessing credibility
             and proving their reputation across different platforms and contexts.
                To address these limitations, Privacy-Preserving Reputation Systems (PPRS) have been pro-
             posed to protect user identities and feedback content while ensuring the integrity and verifiability of
             reputation scores. Blockchain technology offers a way to implement such systems by providing an
             immutable and auditable ledger that ensures that transaction records remain transparent and resistant
             to tampering. These systems can be designed with the principles of Self-Sovereign Identity (SSI),
             whichenableparticipants to control their own digital identities and the information associated with them.
             ThroughmechanismssuchasDecentralized Identifier (DID)andVerifiable Credential (VC), SSI
             allows reputation information to be cryptographically bound to an identity, making it possible to build
             trustworthy reputation representations without relying on a single central authority. However, designing
             a system that aligns with the complex nature of real estate transactions remains a challenge.
                In this work, we propose a blockchain-based reputation system that addresses the requirements
             of real estate transactions. The system is based on blockchain recorded interactions and user submitted
             feedback to compute reputation as a multidimensional value, where distinct behavioral components
             evolve according to the context of each interaction. Reputation updates are applied through transparent
             and verifiable algorithms, and aggregated using role specific weights.
                This work was developed in collaboration with Unlockit, a DLT-based company operating in the
             real estate sector, which focuses on digitizing and streamlining real estate transactions, with the goal of
             improving the transparency, security, and ef├Åciency of property transactions through blockchain-based
             solutions.
             1.1  Work Objective
             The main objectives of this work are the following.
                ŌĆó Study and analyze reputation systems, privacy-preserving reputation models, and VC mecha-
                 nisms applicable to real estate transactions.
                ŌĆó Designablockchain-basedreputationarchitecturewithamultidimensionalandcontext-dependent
                 structure that captures distinct behavioral aspects of real estate interactions.
                ŌĆó Implementtransparentandverifiablereputationupdateusingsmartcontracts,ensuringauditabil-
                 ity and resistance to manipulation attacks.
             1.2  Document Overview
             This document is structured as follows. Section 2 presents the background and related work, cover-
             ing digital identity and VCs, blockchain applications in real estate, and reputation systems, including
             privacy-preserving models and blockchain-based implementations. Section 3 describes the proposed so-
             lution, specifying system requirements, participants, data structures, architecture, and the blockchain
             implementation using smart contracts. Section 4 outlines the evaluation methodology for assessing the
                                                    3
                                      Security    Controllability   Portability
                                      Protection     Existence     Interoperability
                                      Persistence     Control       Transparency
                                     Minimisation     Consent          Access
                                                                     Portability
                                         Figure 1: The 10 principles of SSI, from [3]
               systemŌĆÖs correctness and resistance to manipulation. Section 5 presents the work schedule for the re-
               maining development and evaluation phases. Finally, Section 6 concludes the document and discusses
               future work directions.
               2   Background and Related Work
               Thissectionpresentsthemostrelevantbackgroundconceptsandrelatedworktotheproposedblockchain-
               based reputation system. It first introduces digital identity and VCs, which provide the mechanisms
               for participant identification and credential issuance. Then, blockchain applications in real estate,
               which demonstrate how Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) addresses challenges in the real estate
               sector. Finally, reputation systems, including privacy-preserving models and blockchain-based imple-
               mentations.
               2.1   Digital Identity and Verifiable Credentials
               In the current digital environment, companies frequently collect large amounts of user data for processes
               such as access control and user profiling [1]. This centralized data collection places users at risk of
               privacy violations, including data breaches and abusive data analysis, often caused by poor security
               practices or ineffective data management.
                 In response, regulations such as General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) have been
               established to protect personal data by imposing obligations on data controllers and processors. However,
               despite these measures, data breaches continue to occur. To address these risks and return control of
               personal data to the individual, new identity management approaches such as SSI have been proposed.
               2.1.1 Self-Sovereign Identity (SSI)
               The principle of sovereignty refers to the idea that entities must maintain control over their own digital
               identity [2]. In a SSI model, users store their own identity data and decide what information to
               disclose in each interaction, removing the need for intermediary identity providers [1]. This approach
               mitigates the impact of data breaches and increases userŌĆÖs flexibility. Instead of identity information
               being spread across various service providers, the user retains sovereign control and discloses only the
               required information for a given context.
                 According to [3], the properties of SSI systems can be grouped into three main categories, as
               presented in Figure 1.
                 ŌĆó Security: Protect personal data by minimizing its exposure to what is functionally necessary.
                 ŌĆó Controllability: Ensure that users have full authority over their identity, including giving consent
                   for its use and the right to delete it, supporting the principle of the right to be forgotten
                 ŌĆó Portability: Allow users to use their digital identity on any platform without being locked into a
                   specific provider.
                                                          4
                   To implement these principles in practice, blockchain, a well-known implementation of DLT,
                emerges as a suitable technology for these models. A ledger is a data structure that maintains trans-
                actions in an indelible append-only log, establishing which transactions occurred and in what order [4].
                Adistributed ledger extends this concept to a replicated append-only data structure maintained by
                a network of independent nodes that do not trust each other, tolerating Byzantine behavior [5].
                   Theblockchain offers a decentralized peer-to-peer infrastructure capable of supporting reliable access
                control [1]. This decentralized infrastructure introduces two technologies that support the SSI system:
                a DID and a VC.
                2.1.2  Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs)
                DIDs are globally unique identifiers designed to function without relying on a centralized registration
                authority [6,7]. Instead, they are registered on a DLT, removing the dependency on traditional certificate
                authorities or centralized registries for identity verification and key management.
                   A DID is a structured text string composed of three elements: a URL scheme identifier, an
                identifier for the specific DID method, and a method-specific identifier. The DID syntax follows
                the structure of a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI), making it compatible with web standards. DIDs
                are resolvable, similar to web URLs, enabling the retrieval of a standard document that describes the
                DID subject.
                   This document, known as the DID Document, defines the mechanisms required to interact with
                the identity. It contains information such as verification methods, which include cryptographic materials
                like public keys, used for authentication, digital signatures, encryption and authorization. The
                document is controlled by the DID controller, the entity with the authority to make changes to the
                DID Document. The DID subject refers to the entity (such as a person, organization, or thing) that
                the DID identifies.
                   Each DID Method defines how a DID is managed on a specific DLT or network. It specifies the
                exact processes for creating, reading, updating and deactivating the DID and its document. Service
                endpoints, also listed in the DID Document, define how external parties can communicate with the
                DID subject.
                   Beyond the general structure, [8] distinguishes three types of DIDs:
                   ŌĆó Anywise: Can be used with an unspecified number of parties, typically unknown to one
                     another, supporting broad usage without limiting the number of relationships established.
                   ŌĆó Pairwise: Are shared exclusively between two entities. This improves privacy by ensuring
                     that each relationship uses a unique identifier, reducing the risk of correlation between different
                     interactions.
                   ŌĆó N-wise: Are shared by exactly N entities, including the subject. Pairwise DIDs are a specific
                     instance of this model when N = 2.
                   Aconcrete example of a DID Document is shown in Figure 2.
                2.1.3  Verifiable Credentials (VCs)
                Once an entity possesses a DID, it can obtain VCs, which extend the functionality of DIDs beyond
                identity representation [8]. VCs contain claims about the DID subject that can be cryptographically
                verified by third parties without requiring direct contact with the original issuer.
                   AVCactsastamper-resistant data container that provides cryptographic guarantees of origin,
                integrity, and authorization for its use [9]. The VC data model offers the flexibility to digitize virtually
                any physical document, making it applicable to a wide range of verification scenarios. Figure 3 shows an
                example of a VC.
                   Within the SSI ecosystem, three primary roles are defined, as illustrated in Figure 4:
                   ŌĆó The Issuer, who creates and signs the credentials.
                                                               5
           {
             "@context": "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1",
             "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
             "authentication": [{
              "id": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi#keys-1",
              "type": "RsaVerificationKey2018",
              "controller": "did:example:123456789abcdefghi",
             }],
             "service": [{
              "id":"did:example:123456789abcdefghi#vcs",
              "type": "VerifiableCredentialService",
              "serviceEndpoint": "https://example.com/vc/"
             }]
           }
                    Figure 2: An example of a DID Document, adapted from [6]
           {
             "@context": [
              "https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/v1",
              "https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/examples/v1"
             ],
             "id": "http://example.edu/credentials/1872",
             "type": ["VerifiableCredential", "AlumniCredential"],
             "issuer": "https://example.edu/issuers/565049",
             "issuanceDate": "2010-01-01T19:23:24Z",
             "credentialSubject": {
              "id": "did:example:ebfeb1f712ebc6f1c276e12ec21",
              "alumniOf": {
               "id": "did:example:c276e12ec21ebfeb1f712ebc6f1",
               "name": [ {
                "value": "Example University",
                "lang": "en"
               }]
              }
             },
             "proof": {
              "type": "RsaSignature2018",
              "created": "2017-06-18T21:19:10Z",
              "proofPurpose": "assertionMethod",
              "verificationMethod": "https://example.edu/issuers/565049#key-1",
              "jws": "eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImI2NCI6ZmFsc2UsImNyaXQiOlsiYjY0..."
             }
           }
                       Figure 3: An example of a VC, adapted from [8]
                                  6
                                     Figure 4: Overview of VC main actors [8]
                ŌĆó The Holder, who possesses and manages one or more credentials.
                ŌĆó The Verifier, who receives the credential and validates its authenticity.
                Each VC includes the URI of the subject, the URI of the issuer, and a unique identifier for
             the credential itself [8]. In many cases, these URIs can also take the form of DIDs. Holders can also
             construct a Verifiable Presentation (VP), which defines the way VCs are shared and signed before
             being presented to verifiers. This ensures selective disclosure, while maintaining data authenticity and
             privacy.
                Both DIDs and VCs rely on a Verifiable Data Registry (VDR), typically implemented using
             a DLT. The VDR acts as a trusted intermediary, serving as a repository that stores and manages
             information related to DIDs and VCs. It allows for the verification of credentials and identifiers by
             providing a reliable and immutable source of truth for identity data.
             2.2  Blockchain Applications in Real Estate
             The real estate sector is frequently cited as technologically outdated, driven by slow, bureaucratic
             processes, high costs, and vulnerability to fraud [10]. Transactions commonly involve many inter-
             mediaries, extensive manual document verification, and complex regulatory compliance such as Due
             Diligence, GDPR, and Anti-Money Laundering.
                Blockchain technology, together with the identity models presented in Section 2.1, has been
             proposed as a solution to these challenges. It can offer new mechanisms to improve transparency,
             security, and ef├Åciency across these processes, while reducing dependence on centralized authorities
             and minimizing the potential for manipulation.
             2.2.1 Documentation and Identity Management
             Property transactions depend on the exchange and validation of sensitive documents among multiple
             stakeholders, a process that is often fragmented and vulnerable to falsification [11]. A Blockchain-based
             Documentation Management (BDM) system aims to solve these problems by providing a decen-
             tralized and auditable infrastructure that records all document-related events securely on a blockchain.
             Within this architecture, users maintain full control over their documentation while benefiting from
             the immutability and transparency of DLT.
                Architecturally, these systems can be based on a permissioned (private) blockchain, ensuring that
             only authorized participants can interact with the ledger. Smart contracts, self-executing programs
             that run on the blockchain, record events such as document uploads, approvals, and consent changes
             on-chain, producing a verifiable sequence of interactions, while sensitive documents are encrypted and
             stored in off-chain cloud storage.
                                                    7
                2.2.2  Tokenization
                Tokenizationinrealestatereferstotheprocessofdigitallyrepresentingaphysicalassetthroughblockchain
                tokens, enabling fractional ownership and reducing entry barriers for smaller investors [12]. These
                tokens embody economic value, rights, and contractual obligations, functioning similarly to more tradi-
                tional ownership models, such as shares or funds. When implemented through smart contracts, the
                issuance, distribution, and transfer of these tokens become more ef├Åcient, transparent, and cost-
                effective compared to conventional property transactions.
                   This approach is particularly suitable for assets such as land and property, which are traditionally
                characterized by high costs, indivisibility, multiple intermediaries, and complex regulations. Tokenization
                mitigates these constraints by enabling near-instant agreement execution and reducing intermediary
                expenses.
                   Decentralized marketplaces can be developed to manage these tokenized assets [13]. These platforms
                can integrate SSI mechanisms for identity management, where users obtain VCs at registration and
                present VPs to prove their identity. They can be built using DLTs with smart contracts written in
                Digital Asset Modeling Language (Daml) and deployed in the Canton Network.
                Daml
                Daml is an open-source functional smart contract language designed to automate multi-party busi-
                ness workflows on DLTs [14]. The language is designed around three requirements. First, real-world
                adequacy, achieved by providing abstractions that closely capture the legal rules governing business
                workflows. Second, security, enforced through explicit authorization checks and well-defined seman-
                tics. Third, composability, which enables pre-existing workflows to be combined into more complex
                processes, even after deployment.
                   Smart contracts in Daml are defined using templates that specify the data stored in contract in-
                stances, the authorization rules required for contract creation and archival through signatories, and
                the visibility rules through observers. Business logic is implemented through choices, which define the
                allowed state transitions of a contract instance, with controllers specifying the parties authorized to
                exercise each choice.
                The Canton Network
                Canton is a distributed runtime for executing Daml smart contracts that preserves DamlŌĆÖs authoriza-
                tion and privacy properties [15]. It partitions state across participants, where each participant only
                receives, stores, and processes data it is authorized to see, avoiding the scalability and privacy limitations
                of a globally replicated state. CantonŌĆÖs architecture is based on participant nodes and synchronization
                domains. Parties interact through participant nodes that connect to domains responsible for sequencing
                and mediating transaction messages. This design supports parallel processing of independent workflows
                and enables horizontal scalability for high-value real estate transactions [13].
                2.2.3  Smart Contract Integration
                In property rental processes, where multiple stakeholders often lack mutual trust and documents are
                shared through insecure channels, smart contracts can automate the enforcement of conditions
                established in lease agreements, such as rent collection [16]. However, blockchains are inherently deter-
                ministic systems and cannot directly access external data sources, which limits their ability to interact
                with real-world information.
                   To enable real-world integration, oracles serve as trusted intermediaries that provide external
                data to smart contracts. They can be categorized according to the direction of data flow, whether it is
                sent from the blockchain to the external world or vice versa, and by their trust model, being centralized
                or decentralized.
                                                               8
             2.3  Reputation Systems
             In distributed environments, where multiple spatially separated components communicate to operate,
             reputation systems are among the few mechanisms that enable users to be held accountable for their
             actions [17]. By collecting and aggregating user experiences, these systems incentivize better behavior
             among participants and provide a reference for users to assess each otherŌĆÖs trustworthiness.
                The reputation of a user, as a ratee or a votee, is determined by feedback from other users, known
             as raters or voters, who have gained personal experience through interactions with that user [18]. The
             systemthenaggregatesthisfeedbacktoproduceareputation score. Actionsperceivedaslegitimateare
             expected to generate positive feedback, resulting in a higher reputation score, while dishonest behavior
             typically leads to a lower aggregated reputation score. Research on peer-to-peer e-commerce platforms
             such as eBay has shown that these reputation scores contribute to improving customer satisfaction and
             reducing fraud in transactions [19].
             2.3.1 Interaction
             Reputation systems can be classified by the direction that the reputation is given [19]. The main types
             are:
                ŌĆó Simplex: The simplest model, commonly found on platforms such as Amazon. The evaluation
                 is unidirectional, where only one party provides feedback after a transaction, typically from the
                 customer to the seller.
                ŌĆó Half-Duplex: Found in systems such as eBay. In this model, both parties can evaluate each other
                 after a transaction, creating mutual accountability.
                ŌĆó Full-Duplex: UsedbyplatformslikeReddit. Thismodelallowsallpeerstorateeachotherwithout
                 predefined roles such as buyer or seller.
                Beyond the direction of feedback exchange, reputation systems can also be distinguished based on
             the methods used to calculate the reputation score, dividing them into two main categories: voter-
             agnostic and voter-conscious approaches.
                Voter-agnostic functions compute reputation scores by treating all feedback as equal, regardless
             of which user submitted the rating. Common methods include the Accrue Star model, where ratings
             are summed, and the Average Star method, used by eBay, which computes the arithmetic mean of all
             ratings. More adaptive models, such as the Gompertz function [20], assign greater weight to recent
             interactions, allowing reputation to grow gradually through consistent positive behavior, while declining
             sharply after negative events.
                In contrast, voter-conscious functions take into account the identity or attributes of the voter.
             These systems typically use weighted sums or averages, where the weight assigned to a given vote is
             determined by specific information about the voter, such as their own reputation score.
             2.3.2 Privacy and Security
             Although reputation systems are used to build trust, traditional centralized implementation of these
             systems often create privacy challenges by exposing the identity of the feedback provider [18]. Such
             exposure can make honest users hesitate to provide negative feedback, for reasons ranging from fear of
             retaliation to concerns about revealing sensitive personal information.
                PPRSare specifically designed to address these issues. Their goal is to protect both user identities
             and feedback content while ensuring the integrity and verifiability of reputation scores. To better under-
             stand their structure, [18] introduces an analysis framework that identifies the main design dimensions
             of PPRS, as illustrated in Figure 5. These can be divided into two main categories, according to their
             security objectives:
                                                    9
                                  Figure 5: Analysis framework for privacy-preserving reputation systems [18]
                    1. User Anonymity-Oriented Systems: In these systems, each user is represented by one or more
                       pseudonyms, and the goal is to preserve the anonymity of the user providing the feedback. This is
                       achieved through privacy goals that include:
                          ŌĆó User-PseudonymUnlinkability: TheuserŌĆÖstrueidentityisnotlinkabletoanypseudonym.
                          ŌĆó Pseudonym-Pseudonym Unlinkability: Two pseudonyms that belong to the same user
                            cannot be linked.
                          ŌĆó Reputation Transfer Aggregation: Allows users to manage reputation across different
                            pseudonyms while maintaining unlinkability.
                    2. Feedback Confidentiality-Oriented Systems: Thesesystems, in contrast, focus on keeping the
                       content of the rating private, rather than hiding the participantsŌĆÖ identities. While the existence
                       of a feedback interaction may be public, the score and content of the feedback remain confidential.
                     Figure 6 provides an overview of the main security objectives in the design of PPRS.
                 2.3.3    Trust Model
                 In a PPRS, security and privacy guarantees are often dependent on the trust of a user in other entities
                 within the system [18]. These trusted parties might be a single, central authority or a selection of
                 fellow participants. This reliance is based on the userŌĆÖs assumption that these entities will operate in a
                 predictable, expected manner in order to protect their security and privacy.
                     The most traditional approach is the Trusted Third Party (TTP) model, in which users must
                 place complete trust in a single centralized entity. A more distributed alternative is a model in which
                 users rely on a defined subset of other participants to validate their interactions. This can be
                 implemented by requiring a user to trust an arbitrary number (k) of other users or by allowing a user to
                 personally select specific peers that they will trust.
                     The most recent model is the Trustless model. In this context, trustless does not imply the absence
                 of trust, but rather that trust is placed in algorithms and cryptographic protocols instead of any specific
                 entity or fellow users.   This model is enabled by blockchain technology, ensuring an immutable
                 and transparent environment, where users can verify the integrity of interactions and computation of
                                                                     10
                                 Figure 6: Security objectives of privacy-preserving reputation systems [18]
                 the reputation score.  Reputation systems built with these principles can use smart contracts to
                 automatically compute and update scores, without the intervention of a central authority.
                    In these trustless environments, the reliability of interactions depends on the systemŌĆÖs ability to en-
                 sure agreement among independent participants [21]. This agreement is achieved through consensus
                 mechanisms, the protocols that determine how blockchain nodes validate and record new information
                 without central coordination. In the Proof-of-Work (PoW) model, nodes compete to solve a compu-
                 tationally dif├Åcult puzzle, and the first to find a solution publishes the next block, which can be easily
                 verified by others. In contrast, the Proof-of-Stake (PoS) model determines consensus based on the
                 amount of cryptocurrency that participants lock as stake within the network. The probability of being
                 selected to publish a block increases with the proportion of the total stake held by each participant.
                 PoSreduces the need for resource-intensive computations and aligns network security with the financial
                 commitment of users, as those with larger stakes have stronger incentives to preserve the integrity
                 of the system.
                    Other consensus protocols are commonly used in permissioned blockchain environments, particularly
                 those based on Byzantine Fault Tolerance (BFT) [22]. These protocols operate under the assump-
                 tion of a known and authenticated set of participants and are designed to tolerate a bounded number of
                 faulty or malicious nodes while still guaranteeing safety and liveness. Examples include Practical Byzan-
                 tine Fault Tolerance (PBFT) and BFT-SMaRt, which achieve agreement on the order of transactions
                 through structured message exchanges among replicas. Unlike PoW or PoS, Byzantine consensus pro-
                 tocols provide definitive agreement and avoid both the computational overhead of PoW or the economic
                 incentive mechanisms of PoS systems.
                 2.3.4   Cryptographic Mechanisms
                 Toimplementtheprivacy and security objectives described in Section 2.3.2, PPRS employ cryptographic
                 primitives that enable anonymous yet verifiable interactions. These mechanisms allow users to prove
                 statements about their identity or behavior without revealing sensitive information.
                                                                  11
                   ŌĆó In a Blind signature scheme, a signer produces a valid signature on a message without learning
                     anything about the message content [23]. A blind signature system is expected to ensure that only
                     the legitimate signer, who possesses the required private key, can issue valid signatures. Besides
                     that, it should implement untraceability, ensuring that once the signed message is later revealed,
                     the signer cannot determine when or under what circumstances it was signed.
                   ŌĆó A Zero-knowledge proof (ZKP) is a protocol that enables a prover to convince a verifier that a
                     given statement is true without revealing any information beyond the statementŌĆÖs validity [24]. A
                     ZKPmustsatisfythese three properties: completeness (an honest prover can always convince the
                     verifier of a true statement), soundness (a malicious prover cannot convince the verifier of a false
                     statement), and zero-knowledge (the verifier learns nothing beyond the truth of the statement).
                     Zero-Knowledge Succinct Non-Interactive Arguments of Knowledge (zkSNARK) is
                     a type of ZKP that can be verified without requiring direct communication between prover and
                     verifier [17].
                   ŌĆó A Pedersen commitment scheme allows a user to commit to a message without revealing it,
                     with the ability to later prove the validity of the commitment [24]. These schemes depend on two
                     properties: binding and hiding. The binding property ensures that, once a commitment is made,
                     the committer cannot alter the original message. The hiding property guarantees that the receiver
                     cannot deduce the committed message from the commitment value.
                2.3.5  Common Attacks
                Reputation systems are vulnerable to various malicious behaviors that aim to manipulate or exploit the
                system. According to [18], some of the most common attacks include:
                   ŌĆó Sybil attack: A single malicious user creates and controls multiple fake identities (Sybil nodes)
                     to gain disproportionate influence in the system.
                   ŌĆó Self-promotion or ballot stuf├Ång: Arateeattemptstoboosttheirownreputationbygenerating
                     or soliciting false positive feedback.
                   ŌĆó Slandering or bad-mouthing: An adversary intentionally submits false negative feedback to
                     damage the reputation of another user.
                   ŌĆó Whitewashing: A user abandons an identity with poor reputation and rejoins the system with a
                     new pseudonym to reset their reputation score.
                   ŌĆó Oscillation: A user behaves honestly over time to build a strong reputation and then exploits it
                     for malicious activities before abandoning the account.
                   ŌĆó Random ratings: A user submits arbitrary or random feedback without real interactions, often
                     to appear active or disrupt system reliability.
                   ŌĆó Free riding: A user benefits from the reputation system, such as using reputation information to
                     make decisions, without contributing feedback themselves.
                2.3.6  Blockchain-Based Implementations
                Building upon trustless models and cryptographic mechanisms, various implementations have been pro-
                posed that leverage blockchain technology to achieve transparency, immutability, and verifiability while
                eliminating dependence on central authorities. The following proposals highlight some strategies devel-
                oped to achieve these goals.
                   Schaub et al. [23] proposed a trustless and decentralized PPRS designed for e-commerce applica-
                tions. Their system uses blockchain and blind signatures to ensure user anonymity. In this model, a
                Service Provider (SP) issues blinded tokens, which are signed commitments that confirm a transaction
                                                               12
        has occurred while concealing both the transaction details and the customerŌĆÖs identity. After unblinding
        these tokens, customers can submit ratings and reviews to the blockchain, and this feedback is verifiable
        yet unlinkable to specific users. To limit self-promotion attacks, the system uses a coin mechanism
        where issuing tokens requires spending coins owned by the SP.
         Dimitriou [17] developed a peer-to-peer decentralized PPRS built on blockchain and zkSNARKs,
        enabling anonymity together with verifiable reputation scores and updates. In this system, each partic-
        ipant can use multiple pseudonyms that are all cryptographically linked to a single reputation token,
        allowing their reputation to persist across contexts while maintaining unlinkability between identities.
        When providing their reputation, users can disclose only a reputation level instead of an exact score,
        reducing the risk of de-anonymization. The system prevents self-promotion attacks through self-
        redeeming tags, computed from the user pseudonym, so if a user attempts to rate themselves using
        different pseudonyms, the tags will coincide and the transaction is rejected.
         Dimitriou later proposed VISOR [24], a PPRS that uses randomizable signatures and ZKPs
        to enable anonymous ratings through review tokens issued by SPs. The system begins with a decen-
        tralized registration phase, in which users obtain a registration token linked to a unique long-term
        secret identity. During interactions with SPs, users generate one-time pseudonyms as Pedersen com-
        mitments on their secret key, allowing them to request and redeem review tokens while preserving
        unlinkability. Submitted reviews are published on a public bulletin board, serving as an append-only
        ledger, where anyone can verify the authenticity of tokens and reviews.
         Owiyo et al. [25] proposed a decentralized PPRS that integrates blockchain with secure multi-
        party computation based on verifiable secret sharing. In this system, when a customer queries a
        SPŌĆÖs reputation, the feedback providers split their private ratings into shares that are distributed between
        multiple nodes, which then collectively compute the aggregated score without any single party accessing
        the complete feedback data. The blockchain serves as both an access control intermediary and an im-
        mutable storage layer for ratings and transactions, while the multiparty computation protocols perform
        the actual aggregation, ensuring that no single party can access complete feedback data. Similarly to
        Schaub et al. [23], the system employs blind signatures to preserve customer anonymity, allowing
        users to obtain blinded transaction tokens that can later be unblinded and used to submit verified yet
        unlinkable ratings.
         Liu et al. [26] presented an Anonymous Reputation System atop a PoS blockchain (ARS-
        PS), designed for Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT)-enabled retail environments. This system inte-
        grates ZKP and Bulletproof range proofs (a type of ZKP) to protect both consumer identity and
        feedback confidentiality, revealing only aggregated retailer ratings. ARS-PS uses an off-chain token gen-
        eration phase to reduce storage and computation overhead and associates retailer reputation with staking
        power within the PoS consensus, aligning incentives for honest participation. Reviews are accumu-
        lated in smart contracts, aggregated by elected slot leaders, and decrypted through a distributed
        decryption process where committee members provide partial decryption tokens, ensuring that indi-
        vidual rating scores remain confidential while aggregated retailer reputation is publicly verifiable on the
        blockchain.
         Larangeira[27]proposedatrust layer over PoSsystemstoconstructastake-basedreputationsys-
        tem. The system allows participants to publicly assign trust to trustees by issuing certificates containing
        a context identifier (IDcontext), representing specific services, products, or entities. Users can pub-
        lish trust assignment certificates on the ledger, with reputation scores computed as the percentage of
        stake each trustee receives relative to the total stake of all assigners for that context. This stake-based
        approach enables the system to support secure multiparty computation protocols and reputation-fair
        lottery mechanisms for Proof-of-Reputation consensus, with all reputation scores publicly verifiable
        through the blockchain ledger.
         Table 1 summarizes and compares these blockchain-based reputation systems in their main design
        characteristics.
                              13
                     Work          Domain          Evaluation      Reputation          Cryptographic Context-
                                                   Structure       Representation      Mechanisms         Aware
                     Schaub et     E-commerce      Single-valued   Single score        Blind signatures   ├Ś
                     al.                           rating
                                                   Single-valued   Single reputation   zkSNARKs,
                     Dimitriou     Peer-to-peer    rating          token value         self-redeeming     ├Ś
                                                                                       tags
                     VISOR         E-commerce      Single-valued   Single aggregated   Pedersen           ├Ś
                                                   rating          score               comm., ZKPs
                     Owiyo et                      Single-valued   Single aggregated   Blind
                     al.           E-commerce      rating          score (MPC)         signatures,        ├Ś
                                                                                       MPC
                                                   Single-valued   Single aggregated   ZKPs,
                     Liu et al.    IIoT retail     rating          score               Bulletproof        ├Ś
                                                                   (stake-linked)      range proofs
                     Larangeira PoS System         Stake %         Stake-weighted %    Trust              Ō£ō
                                                                                       certificates
                               Table 1: Comparison of Blockchain-Based Reputation System Implementations
                 3    Solution
                 Real estate transactions represent a network of interactions in which participants must rely on each
                 otherŌĆÖs competence, reliability, and professional conduct. Each interaction can generate behavioral in-
                 formation that collectively influence how participants perceive each other. Existing blockchain based
                 reputation systems, including those discussed in Section 2.3.6, commonly represent this informa-
                 tion as a single numeric score. While this approach is effective for general purpose applications, it
                 aggregates behaviorally distinct dimensions into a single value.
                    Real estate processes introduce characteristics that motivate a more multidimensional represen-
                 tation. Each role within a real estate transaction requires distinct competencies and a single score
                 provides no process to distinguish which competencies contributed to a reputation change. Further-
                 more, reputation updates may be interpreted uniformly across different use cases without considering
                 the specific context in which the observed behavior occurred.
                    Building on the trustless and privacy-preserving properties presented in Section 2.3, we propose
                 a reputation architecture designed to address the requirements of real estate transactions. The proposed
                 architecture separates behavioral information into distinct components and updates them according
                 to the context of interaction context. This design introduces a multidimensional blockchain-
                 based, feedback confidentiality-oriented PPRS with context-dependent reputation update
                 functions.
                    The architecture is presented in three parts. First, Sections 3.1 and 3.2 define the system require-
                 ments and the participants. Second, the system model is presented in Sections 3.3-3.6, specifying
                 data structures, architectural layers, and the reputation update logic that processes interaction outcomes
                 and modifies component values. Finally, the blockchain implementation is presented in Sections 3.7
                 and 3.8, explaining how the chosen platform and smart contract design support the required privacy and
                 security properties.
                 3.1    System Requirements
                 The proposed system must satisfy the following functional and security requirements:
                    1. Multidimensional reputation representation. Reputation must be represented as a vector
                       of components, where each component corresponds to a distinct dimension that contributes to
                       the overall reputation of a participant.
                                                                   14
                                 Figure 7: Use Cases Diagram of the Proposed Solution
               2. Context specific updates. Reputation updates must depend on the type of interaction, the
                 rules associated with that interaction, and the observed behavior within that context. Different
                 types of interaction must be able to modify different reputation components.
               3. Role-based aggregation. Thereputationvalueofaparticipantmustbecomputedbyaggregating
                 the component values using weights determined by the participantŌĆÖs role. Different roles should
                 prioritize different reputation components.
               4. Selective visibility and privacy. Participants must have access to the structure of their own
                 reputation vector, including individual component values and their evolution over time. External
                 verifiers should only observe the aggregated results or explicitly disclosed components.
               5. Protection against common attacks. The system must mitigate the attacks presented in
                 Section 2.3.5, including Sybil attacks, whitewashing, ballot stuf├Ång, and self-promotion.
               6. Auditability and verifiability. All reputation updates must be recorded on a tamper-resistant
                 ledger and must be publicly verifiable without revealing sensitive interaction details or feedback
                 content.
             3.2  System Participants
             The system defines three primary participant types: the Reputation Subject, the Interaction Par-
             ticipant, and the Verifier. Each participant is identified by a DID, establishing a cryptographically
             verifiable identity within the system. Figure 7 illustrates the use cases for each participant type.
                ŌĆó AReputation Subjectisaparticipantthatpossessesreputation within the system. Each subject
                 holds a reputation state associated with their DID that evolves through interactions with other
                 participants. Subjects have access to their reputation vector, including individual component
                 values and update history. They can generate VCs with proof of their own reputation and control
                 the level of disclosure, optionally revealing selected component values for specific verification
                                                    15
                       contexts or only an aggregated score. In the context of real estate transactions, Reputation Subjects
                       can include real estate agents, brokers, property sellers, property buyers, and other roles whose
                       behavior can be evaluated over time.
                     ŌĆó An Interaction Participant is a participant capable of submitting evaluations following in-
                       teractions with Reputation Subjects. They contribute to reputation updates in two ways. First, by
                       completing interactions that trigger automated updates to specific reputation components, based
                       on observable metrics. Second, through feedback submission for components that require sub-
                       jective evaluation. Interaction Participants can include buyers evaluating agents after a property
                       sale, sellers providing feedback on brokers, or other participants involved in evaluating the behavior
                       of other transaction participants.
                     ŌĆó A Verifier is a participant that validates VCs produced by a Reputation Subject. The verifier
                       receives a VC containing reputation information and then verifies the authenticity and in-
                       tegrity of the credential, confirming that it was correctly issued and has not been tampered with.
                       Verifiers can include real estate platforms, financial institutions, landlords, employers, or regulatory
                       entities that need to assess the reputation of agents, brokers, or other transaction participants.
                     In addition to these participant types, the system includes a privileged administrative role respon-
                 sible for configuring interaction types, defining evaluation rules, and managing system parameters.
                 3.3    Data Structures
                 Among the blockchain-based reputation systems discussed in Section 2.3.6, the Reputation Token
                 proposed by Dimitriou [17] provides the most suitable basis for representing the reputation state of each
                 subject in the system. The token binds reputation as a single numeric value to a cryptographic identity
                 and supports verifiable reputation updates on a ledger.
                     This structure addresses two of the trustless and privacy-preserving requirements defined in Section
                 3.1. Auditability and verifiability are achieved through updates that are recorded as tamper-resistant
                 transaction.   Protection against common attacks is provided through binding of reputation to
                 identity, preventing impersonation and unauthorized modifications.
                     Ourarchitecture extends DimitriouŌĆÖs model by representing reputation as a vector of components,
                 where each component represents a distinct behavioral dimension. Figure 8 presents the data model of
                 the proposed reputation system. The model defines these entities: Participant, ReputationToken,
                 Component, Interaction and Feedback.
                     ŌĆó TheReputationTokenentityrepresentsthereputationstateofaparticipant. Eachtokencontains
                       an overallScore computed from its components, a role identifier, and roleWeights that determine
                       how components are aggregated for that specific role. A token is composed of multiple Compo-
                       nent entities, each capturing a distinct behavioral dimension. Each component maintains a name
                       identifier, a numeric value and is updated by the applyDelta() operation. Each component addi-
                       tionally maintains an interactionCount, representing the number of past updates applied to that
                       component, which is used to weight the impact of future reputation changes.
                     ŌĆó The Interaction entity models activities between participants. Each interaction has an interac-
                       tion type identifier, temporal bounds (startTime, endTime), and a status indicator. When an
                       interaction completes, the complete() operation generates outcome records containing metrics for
                       each participant of the interaction. The evaluateOutcomes() operation processes these outcomes
                       according to the rules associated with the interaction type, producing a set of reputation deltas
                       for the affected components of each participant.
                     ŌĆó The Feedback entity enables subjective evaluation of interaction outcomes. Each feedback con-
                       tains componentRatings, a map that assigns numeric ratings to specific components, and an optional
                       textual comment. The publicComment flag controls the visibility of the comment field to other
                       participants. The submit() operation converts feedback ratings into an outcome structure.
                                                                     16
                                  Figure 8: Class Diagram of the Proposed Solution
             3.4  System Architecture
             The Reputation System follows a three-layer architecture, as illustrated in Figure 9.
             Presentation Layer
             The Presentation Layer provides the web-based user interface where participants interact with the
             system. The Web Application serves as the frontend of the system and adapts its interface to present
             functionality and information relevant to the authenticated user, ensuring that participants can only
             perform operations permitted by their roles.
             Application Layer
             The Application Layer implements the business logic of the system, exposing a REST API that
             connects the Presentation Layer with the Blockchain Layer. This layer handles reputation operations,
             credential issuance and verification, participant authentication, and interaction management
             through four core services:
                ŌĆó The Authentication Service manages participant authentication, access control, and role-
                 based permissions through credential-based verification. Participants present a VC from their
                 wallet containing role information and a cryptographic identity. The service validates the credential,
                 extracts the role and blockchain address, assigns corresponding permissions, and establishes an
                 authenticated session that binds the application account and blockchain identity.
                ŌĆó The Reputation Management Service manages reputation updates and provides query
                 capabilities for reputation data. The service handles updates from interaction outcomes and
                 feedback submissions, applying context-dependent updates to specific reputation components based
                 on interaction type. It computes aggregated reputation scores using role-specific weights and
                 forwards all updates to the Blockchain Layer for immutable recording. Participants can view
                 rankings of all participants by aggregated score, query their own reputation details, and access
                 their update history.
                ŌĆó The Interaction Management Service allows authorized participants to create new interac-
                 tions, enables other participants to join ongoing interactions, and completes interactions, generat-
                 ing interaction outcomes. Participants can query their interaction history and submit feedback
                 providing subjective ratings for specific reputation components. The service validates participant
                                                    17
                      Figure 9: Proposed Architecture Archimate Diagram
                                 18
                                 {
                                   "interactionId": "sale_123",
                                   "participantId": "agent_A",
                                   "interactionType": "SaleCompletion",
                                   "metrics": {
                                     "contractSigned": true,
                                     "settlementDelayDays": 1,
                                     "documentSubmissionLatencyHours": 6.4,
                                     "revisionCount": 2
                                   }
                                 }
                                Figure 10: Example of an Interaction outcome structure
                 authorization to prevent attacks such as ballot stuf├Ång and self-promotion, and invokes reputation
                 update operations upon interaction completion. Additionally, the service provides administrative
                 functionality for defining and managing interaction type configurations, including the definition of
                 evaluation rules and their parameters, which are recorded on the blockchain and referenced during
                 outcome evaluation.
                ŌĆó The Credential Management Service issues and manages VCs for reputation verification. The
                 service generates credentials containing reputation data with configurable disclosure levels, al-
                 lowing Reputation Subjects to select which components are revealed. It verifies credentials by
                 validating their authenticity and integrity to confirm they were correctly issued and remain unal-
                 tered. Reputation Subjects can query their history to track all credentials they have generated
                 and shared with verifiers.
             Blockchain Layer
             The Blockchain Layer implements the data structures and operations defined in Section 3.3 as smart
             contracts on a DLT and exposes a Smart Contract API used by the Application Layer to submit
             authorized operations. This layer is responsible for all security and trust-sensitive functionality, in-
             cluding the representation of participant reputation, the execution of reputation update logic, and the
             immutable recording of interactions and feedback. All submitted operations are executed as blockchain
             transactions, ensuring tamper-resistant and auditable state transitions.
                Placing these components on-chain provides immutability, verifiability of reputation computation,
             and smart contract-enforced authorization, preventing unauthorized reputation manipulation. In con-
             trast, functionality such as authentication, interaction initiation, session management, and user interface
             logic remains off-chain, as these operations do not benefit from decentralized trust, global consensus,
             or immutable execution.
             3.5  Interaction Outcomes Evaluation
             In the proposed system, the evolution of a participantŌĆÖs reputation is determined by the completion
             of interactions and the subsequent submission of feedback. These actions generate observable
             outcomes that affect the reputation state of the involved participants. Reputation updates are applied
             to individual components, allowing behavior in different contexts to influence distinct dimensions of
             reputation.
                When an interaction reaches completion, the complete() operation produces a set of outcome
             records for each participant, containing objectively measured metrics derived from system observable
             events. Figure 10 illustrates an example of the outcome structure generated by the completion of a sale
             interaction.
                                                    19
                            {
                               "interactionId": "sale_123",
                               "participantId": "agent_A",
                               "deltas": {
                                 "ProcessEfficiency": 3.5,
                                 "DocumentationAccuracy": 2.5,
                                 "TransactionFollowThrough": 2.0
                               },
                               "reasons": {
                                 "ProcessEfficiency": "SETTLEMENT_DELAY_BELOW_THRESHOLD",
                                 "DocumentationAccuracy": "LOW_DOCUMENT_REVISION_COUNT",
                                 "TransactionFollowThrough": "ALL_TRANSACTION_STAGES_COMPLETED"
                               }
                            }
                         Figure 11: Example of the output produced by the evaluation of a completed Interaction
                   Following the completion of the interaction, a feedback phase is initiated during which the par-
                ticipants of the interaction may submit subjective evaluations of each otherŌĆÖs performance. Each
                feedback submission generates an additional outcome record.
                   The evaluateOutcomes() operation processes both system generated and feedback derived outcome
                records according to the interaction type and its evaluation rules. This operation produces a set of
                reputation deltas for the affected reputation components of each participant. Figure 11 illustrates an
                example of the output produced by the evaluation of a completed sale interaction.
                3.6   Reputation Updates Application
                Reputation updates are performed through the applyDelta() operation of each component. Each ad-
                justed delta modifies the componentŌĆÖs numeric value, after which the interaction count is incremented to
                weigh future updates. To ensure stability and resilience against manipulation, the system applies a di-
                minishing impact computation,wheretheeffectofsuccessiveinteractionsonacomponentdecreases
                as its interaction count increases.
                   For each reputation component, the adjusted delta applied to its value is computed as follows:
                                             adjustedDelta = ŌłÜ     baseDelta
                                                              interactionCount+ ĒĀĄĒ▒ś
                where interactionCount is the number of previous updates applied to that component, and k is a
                positive constant that controls the initial sensitivity of the reputation system. This constant prevents
                high volatility during the first interactions.
                   An alternative mechanism could be drawn from the Exponential Weighted Moving Average
                (EWMA). Thisapproachmaintainsthevalueofeachcomponentasaweightedaveragethatprioritizes
                recent interactions.
                                 newValue = ĒĀĄĒ╗╝ ┬Ę (currentValue + baseDelta) + (1 ŌłÆ ĒĀĄĒ╗╝) ┬Ę currentValue
                where ĒĀĄĒ╗╝ is a weighting factor that determines the influence of new interactions relative to historical
                performance. This formula causes the influence of older interactions to decay exponentially over time,
                ensuring that reputation reflects more recent behavioral patterns.
                   Updates are recorded with the identifier of the interaction that generated them, along with the reason
                for the change, providing a traceable and auditable reputation evolution.
                   After the application of each reputation update, the overall reputation score of the participant is
                recomputed by aggregating the current values of all reputation components using the role specific
                                                              20
                        Smart Contract         Signatories         Observers                  Choice Controllers
                        ReputationToken        Operator            Reputation Subject         Operator
                        Interaction            Operator            Interaction Participants   Operator
                        InteractionType        Operator            All System Participants    Operator
                        FeedbackPrivate        Feedback Author     Feedback Recipient         Feedback Author
                        FeedbackPublic         Feedback Author     Interaction Participants   Feedback Author
                                            Table 2: Smart Contract Visibility and Control Rules
                 weights associated with the participant at registration time. This ensures that the ledger always reflects
                 the current aggregated reputation of each participant.
                 3.7    Blockchain Platform
                 The proposed reputation system is implemented using smart contracts written in Daml and deployed
                 on the Canton Network. These platforms were chosen for this implementation for their ability to meet
                 the functional and security requirements defined in Section 3.1.
                     ŌĆó Daml supports explicit authorization through signatories, observers, and controlled choices,
                       allowing contract actions to be executed only by entitled parties.
                     ŌĆó The Canton Network acts as the execution and coordination layer for the Daml smart contracts,
                       enabling a synchronized ledger. Its architecture, built on sequencers and mediators, ensures
                       that contract executions are ordered, validated, and privacy-preserving. The only parties involved
                       in a given interaction observe the associated contract state and outcomes.
                 3.8    Smart Contracts
                 The proposed system is implemented through a set of smart contracts written as Daml templates and
                 deployed on the Canton Network. These contracts provide the on-chain implementation of the entities
                 defined in Section 3.3 and represent the authorization, privacy, and execution rules required to manage
                 interactions, feedback, and reputation updates.
                     All contract creation and choice execution are mediated by the application layer, which submits com-
                 mands to the blockchain on behalf of authorized parties. The system has a privileged administrative
                 party, called the operator, that exercises choices such as completing interactions, evaluating outcomes,
                 and applying reputation updates.
                     Table 2 presents the smart contracts implemented in the system and their associated visibility and
                 control rules.
                     ŌĆó The ReputationToken contract maintains the on-chain representation of a participantŌĆÖs reputa-
                       tion through a composite structure of weighted components and an aggregated score. Each token is
                       represented by a contract in which the operator executes reputation updates by invoking component
                       modification operations with computed deltas from evaluated interactions. The Reputation Sub-
                       ject is assigned as an observer of their own contract, ensuring transparency over their reputation
                       state.
                     ŌĆó The Interaction contract represents an interaction instance between participants. It is signed by
                       the operator and is visible only to the participants involved in the interaction. The contract imple-
                       ments the evaluateOutcomes choice, which invokes the evaluation logic defined by the associated
                       InteractionType contract to compute the component deltas required for reputation updates.
                                                                    21
            ŌĆó The InteractionType contract defines the evaluation logic for a specific type of interaction
             through a parameterized template. Each interaction type is represented by a contract in which
             the evaluation structure is implemented in the template, while parameters such as component
             thresholds, delta values, and weight configurations are maintained as contract data. This enables
             the operator to modify evaluation behavior without requiring modifications to the Interaction
             or ReputationToken contracts. All the participants in the system are assigned as observers to
             the contract, ensuring transparency of the evaluation algorithms and parameter configurations
             applied to each interaction type.
            ŌĆó The FeedbackPrivate and FeedbackPublic contracts implement subjective evaluation while
             maintaining confidentiality requirements based on user preference. Private feedback contracts
             include component ratings and optional textual comments, with the feedback recipient as the
             only observer. Public feedback contracts contain the same information, but assign all interaction
             participants as observers, making the evaluation transparent to everyone involved in the interaction.
          4  Evaluation
          The evaluation of the proposed system will be conducted by implementing a functional prototype and
          controlled simulations of real estate interactions recorded on the blockchain. The prototype will be
          usedtoassesswhetherthesystemcorrectlycomputes,updatesandaggregatesreputationscoresaccording
          to interaction context and participant roles, and whether VC containing reputation information can be
          correctly issued and verified. Correctness will be evaluated by verifying that reputation updates reflect
          the defined evaluation rules and that reputation evolution is consistent across repeated interactions and
          feedback submissions.
            In addition to correctness, the evaluation will focus on system metrics, including latency, measured
          as the time required for interaction recording, reputation update propagation, and credential issuance or
          verification, and throughput, representing the volume of interactions and reputation updates that the
          system can sustain within a given time interval.
            The system will also be evaluated with respect to its resistance to manipulation by simulating
          commonattacks such as self-promotion and ballot stuf├Ång, observing whether unauthorized or malicious
          actions are correctly prevented.
          5  Work Schedule
            ŌĆó February: Refine the system architecture and design of the reputation model, data structures,
             and system components.
            ŌĆó March: Implement the backend and frontend components. Set up the blockchain environment
             and integrate the application with the ledger.
            ŌĆó April: Implement smart contracts for interactions, reputation updates, and feedback submission.
            ŌĆó May: Implement the issuance of reputation scores and VCs, and integrate all system components
             into a functional prototype.
            ŌĆó June: Perform controlled simulations and evaluate the system under different behavioral scenarios.
            ŌĆó July: Final revisions, finalize evaluation, and complete the dissertation document.
          6  Conclusion
          Thisworkpresentsablockchain-basedreputationsystemdesignedtoaddresstrustandtransparency
          challenges in real estate transactions. The proposed architecture introduces a multidimensional rep-
          utation model where distinct behavioral components are updated according to interaction context,
                                       22
        enabling more accurate evaluation of participant competence. Reputation updates are applied through
        transparent algorithms implemented as smart contracts, ensuring auditability and resistance to ma-
        nipulation attacks, while role-specific weights enable aggregation that reflects different competency
        requirements. The system addresses requirements including selective visibility, protection against
        common attacks, and support for VCs that enable reputation portability across platforms. Future work
        will focus on implementing the prototype, conducting simulations to evaluate system behavior, and
        assessing the fairness, robustness, and usability of the reputation mechanisms.
                              23
                Bibliography
                 [1] R. Belchior, B. Putz, G. Pernul, M. Correia, A. Vasconcelos, and S. Guerreiro, ŌĆ£Ssibac: self-sovereign
                    identity based access control,ŌĆØ in 2020 IEEE 19th International Conference on Trust, Security and
                    Privacy in Computing and Communications (TrustCom).     IEEE, 2020, pp. 1935ŌĆō1943.
                 [2] D. Baars, ŌĆ£Towards self-sovereign identity using blockchain technology,ŌĆØ MasterŌĆÖs thesis, University
                    of Twente, 2016.
                 [3] A. M├╝hle, A. Gr├╝ner, T. Gayvoronskaya, and C. Meinel, ŌĆ£A survey on essential components of a
                    self-sovereign identity,ŌĆØ Computer Science Review, vol. 30, pp. 80ŌĆō86, 2018.
                 [4] M. Herlihy, ŌĆ£Blockchains from a distributed computing perspective,ŌĆØ Communications of the ACM,
                    vol. 62, no. 2, pp. 78ŌĆō85, 2019.
                 [5] T. T. A. Dinh, R. Liu, M. Zhang, G. Chen, B. C. Ooi, and J. Wang, ŌĆ£Untangling blockchain: A
                    data processing view of blockchain systems,ŌĆØ IEEE transactions on knowledge and data engineering,
                    vol. 30, no. 7, pp. 1366ŌĆō1385, 2018.
                 [6] D. Reed, M. Sporny, D. Longley, C. Allen, R. Grant, M. Sabadello, and J. Holt, ŌĆ£Decentralized
                    identifiers (dids) v1. 0,ŌĆØ Draft Community Group Report, 2020.
                 [7] O. Steele, M. Sporny, M. Prorock, and K. Hartog, ŌĆ£Did specification registries: The inter operability
                    registry for decentralized identifiers,ŌĆØ W3C, Apr, 2022.
                 [8] C. Mazzocca, A. Acar, S. Uluagac, R. Montanari, P. Bellavista, and M. Conti, ŌĆ£A survey on decen-
                    tralized identifiers and verifiable credentials,ŌĆØ IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials, 2025.
                 [9] R. Bochnia, D. Richter, and J. Anke, ŌĆ£Lifting the veil of credential usage in organizations: A
                    taxonomy,ŌĆØ in Open Identity Summit 2023.   Gesellschaft f├╝r Informatik eV, 2023, pp. 27ŌĆō38.
                [10] J. Lu├Łs, J. Santos, T. Dias, and M. Correia, ŌĆ£Real estate documentation authentication with
                    blockchain and self-sovereign identity.ŌĆØ
                [11] J. F. Santos, M. P. Correia, and T. R. Dias, ŌĆ£Blockchain-based rental documentation management
                    with audit support,ŌĆØ in 2024 6th Conference on Blockchain Research & Applications for Innovative
                    Networks and Services (BRAINS).    IEEE, 2024, pp. 1ŌĆō10.
                [12] J. Kreppmeier, R. Laschinger, B. I. Steininger, and G. Dorfleitner, ŌĆ£Real estate security token
                    offerings and the secondary market: Driven by crypto hype or fundamentals?ŌĆØ Journal of Banking
                    &Finance, vol. 154, p. 106940, 2023.
                [13] D. Costa, J. Santos, T. Dias, and M. Correia, ŌĆ£A decentralized marketplace for tokenized real
                    estate,ŌĆØ in 2025 20th European Dependable Computing Conference Companion Proceedings (EDCC-
                    C).   IEEE, 2025, pp. 157ŌĆō162.
                [14] A. Bernauer, S. Faro, R. H├żmmerle, M. Huschenbett, M. Kiefer, A. Lochbihler, J. M├żki, F. Mazzoli,
                    S. Meier, N. Mitchell et al., ŌĆ£Daml: A smart contract language for securely automating real-world
                    multi-party business workflows,ŌĆØ arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.03749, 2023.
                [15] Digital Asset Canton Team, ŌĆ£Canton: A daml based ledger interoperability protocol,ŌĆØ Digital Asset,
                    Whitepaper, 2020. [Online]. Available: https://www.canton.io/publications/canton-whitepaper.pdf
                [16] N. Braz, J. Santos, T. Dias, and M. Correia, ŌĆ£Blockchain oracles for real estate rental,ŌĆØ arXiv preprint
                    arXiv:2504.06180, 2025.
                [17] T. Dimitriou, ŌĆ£Decentralized reputation,ŌĆØ in Proceedings of the Eleventh ACM Conference on Data
                    and Application Security and Privacy, 2021, pp. 119ŌĆō130.
                                                               24
                 [18] O. Hasan, L. Brunie, and E. Bertino, ŌĆ£Privacy-preserving reputation systems based on blockchain
                      and other cryptographic building blocks: A survey,ŌĆØ ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR), vol. 55,
                      no. 2, pp. 1ŌĆō37, 2022.
                 [19] S. Gurtler and I. Goldberg, ŌĆ£Sok: Privacy-preserving reputation systems,ŌĆØ Proceedings on Privacy
                      Enhancing Technologies, 2021.
                 [20] K. M. Tj├Ėrve and E. Tj├Ėrve, ŌĆ£The use of gompertz models in growth analyses, and new gompertz-
                      model approach: An addition to the unified-richards family,ŌĆØ PloS one, vol. 12, no. 6, p. e0178691,
                      2017.
                 [21] D. Yaga, P. Mell, N. Roby, and K. Scarfone, ŌĆ£Blockchain technology overview,ŌĆØ arXiv preprint
                      arXiv:1906.11078, 2019.
                 [22] M. Correia, ŌĆ£From byzantine consensus to blockchain consensus,ŌĆØ in Essentials of Blockchain Tech-
                      nology.  CRCPress, 2019, ch. 3.
                 [23] A. Schaub, R. Bazin, O. Hasan, and L. Brunie, ŌĆ£A trustless privacy-preserving reputation system,ŌĆØ
                      in IFIP International Conference on ICT Systems Security and Privacy Protection. Springer, 2016,
                      pp. 398ŌĆō411.
                 [24] T. Dimitriou, ŌĆ£Visor: Privacy-preserving reputation for decentralized marketplaces,ŌĆØ in IFIP Annual
                      Conference on Data and Applications Security and Privacy.      Springer, 2024, pp. 131ŌĆō150.
                 [25] E. Owiyo, Y. Wang, E. Asamoah, D. Kamenyi, and I. Obiri, ŌĆ£Decentralized privacy preserving
                      reputation system,ŌĆØ in 2018 IEEE Third International Conference on Data Science in Cyberspace
                      (DSC). IEEE, 2018, pp. 665ŌĆō672.
                 [26] D. Liu, A. Alahmadi, J. Ni, X. Lin, and X. Shen, ŌĆ£Anonymous reputation system for iiot-enabled
                      retail marketing atop pos blockchain,ŌĆØ IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics, vol. 15, no. 6,
                      pp. 3527ŌĆō3537, 2019.
                 [27] M. Larangeira, ŌĆ£Reputation at stake! a trust layer over decentralized ledger for multiparty compu-
                      tation and reputation-fair lottery,ŌĆØ in International Conference on Information Security and Cryp-
                      tology.  Springer, 2022, pp. 195ŌĆō215.
                                                                     25
